---
title: NATO Specific Architecture approach
---

# Kinds of architecture


When NAF v3 is used, the NATO C3 community utilises four types of
architectures: Overarching Architecture, Reference Architecture, Target
Architecture, and Baseline Architecture.


{%include rasterfigure.html url="nato-kinds.png" description="Relationship between types of NATO architectures"%}

**(Overarching Architecture (OA),Reference Architecture (RA) and Target
Architecture (TA). Baseline Architecture (BA) is not included in the
figure.)**

Depending on the issues and problems an architecture description is set
to cover; it is relevant and appropriate to develop an architecture
description that answers three basic questions: What is the required
functionality? Logically, How can this functionality be met?
Practically, what can be used, or With what can solutions be
implemented?

This leads to a set of architectures commonly applied:

-   An enterprise-wide description of the future situation with limited
    detail, i.e. the What-question. In NATO this is the **Overarching
    Architecture**. *In other frameworks these architectures are called
    “Entreprise Architecture”.*

-   A more focused description of the construction with full detail to
    guide programme execution. Such a description, answering the
    How-question, can focus on a specific subject area or span the
    full enterprise. In NATO this type of architecture description is
    called a **Reference Architecture**. *In other frameworks these
    architecture are called “Segment Architectures”.*

-   A description limited to the scope of a single project addressing
    implementation decisions. Such a description builds on the previous
    type of architecture (Reference Architecture) and illustrates the
    implementation (With what-question) of the previously
    described construction. In NATO this type of architecture
    description is called a **Target Architecture**. *In other
    frameworks these architecture are called
    “Implemented Architectures”.*

The **NATO C3 Overarching Architecture (OA)** is a top-down description
of the desired configuration of the NATO C3 System necessary to meet
NATO’s medium to long-term (up to 15 years) capability requirements. It
describes the relationships between the systems necessary to perform the
functions of NATO Consultation,

Command and Control regardless of whether they are provided as a result
of NATO common funding, multi-national co-operative efforts or by the
use of National assets.

The description is rendered at a high level, but is detailed enough to
identify, using standardised products, systems and system components
within the User, Network, and Sensor domains, how they are interlinked,
and how they interface with external C3 systems. The NHQC3S and the NC3A
shall use the OA as the basis for providing recommendations to the NC3B
for the development of future C3 systems policies and strategic plans.

The NATO C3 Board (NC3B) mandates **Reference Architectures (RA)** to
support the development of Capability Packages under the NATO Security
Investment Programme (NSIP). RAs reflect NATO strategic decisions
regarding system technologies, stakeholder issues, and product lines.
They render user requirements, processes, and concepts in a high-level
solution from which individual projects can be identified and initially
programmed. Their primary focus is on services, processes and component
functionality, and they provide the basis for the development of Target
Architectures (TA). RAs cover the entire planning cycle for a typical
NATO system development, which is normally six years.

**Target Architectures** are mandated by the NC3B to support the
preparation of NSIP Type B Cost Estimates (TBCE). Normally derived from
the related RA, they specify a system design at a detail sufficient to
direct the acquisition and integration of components to achieve a
desired capability. TAs focus on specifications for systems and
services. They are transitional of nature and are usually valid for the
duration of the system acquisition and initial design. TAs modify the
baseline architecture and can provide feedback to an RA.

NATO C3 System **Baseline Architecture** is a description of the fielded
‘as is’ state of the NATO C3 enterprise. Baselines (portions of the NATO
architecture baseline) are used in NATO’s Mission Oriented Analysis
(MOA) process to help assess potential solutions to evolving operational
requirements. Baselines are tools necessary for the user, planner,
manager, and system custodian to comprehensively establish, understand,
and maintain the current enterprise or domain configuration. Baselines
are rendered for NATO and National systems at a level of detail
necessary for depiction of system components, their interconnectivity
with each other, and any relevant external connectivity.

# NATO Level and types as described by the NATO EA Policy

In order to manage the complexity of the NATO Enterprise, the NATO
Enterprise Architecture Policy identifies three levels of architecture
and four different domains/types of architecture The levels and types of
architecture are as defined below.

## Architectures at the NATO Enterprise Level

They provide the architecture content that forms the foundation for
architectural coherence across the entire NATO Enterprise, and beyond.
Architectures at this level will span many change programmes (e.g.
capability packages). Key components of architectures at the NATO
Enterprise-level are:

1.  The C3 Taxonomy and the Technical Services Framework that provide a
    common language for the description of C3 Capabilities and ICT
    Services;

2.  The C3 Integrated Master Plan (IMP) which provides an overview of
    the status of key C3 Capabilities; and

3.  The NISP which provides the most current baseline of
    interoperability profiles and technical standards.
{: type="a"}

## Architectures at the Capability Level

Architectures at this level are used to support the delivery of large,
multi-phased and multi-project change initiatives (e.g. capability
packages). They are used to:

1.  Facilitate the definition of resource proposals to address existing
    shortfalls between the available (as-is) capability and the
    required (to-be) capability;

2.  Support the scoping and phasing of projects to resolve these
    shortfalls;

3.  Identify synergies between the projects; and

4.  Direct, monitor and evaluate the execution of a set of
    related projects.
{: type="a"}

## Architectures at the Project Level

Architectures at this level are describing the envisioned solution that
the project aims to implement. They are used to:

1.  Articulate the high-level design for a project in order to govern
    its execution;

2.  Assure compliance with architectural governance;

3.  Support the integration and alignment between projects;

4.  Inform budget and acquisition decisions (e.g. in a Type B Cost
    Estimate (TBCE));

5.  Provide the basis for more detailed specifications during contract
    preparation (e.g. in an Invitation for Bids (IFB));

6.  Support contractor selection;

7.  Govern the delivery of contracted products and services; and

8.  Provide the basis for service transition and service
    operation activities.
{: type="a"}

## Types of Architectures

Architecture on each level shall cover the following architecture types:

1.  Business Architecture – describing the business strategy,
    governance, organisation, and key business processes (including
    process ownership and key decisions) of the organisation;

2.  Information Architecture – describing the structure of an
    organisation's logical and physical information assets and the
    associated data management resources and linking the information
    required to the key business processes and decisions;

3.  Application Architecture – providing a blueprint for the individual
    application systems to be deployed, the information which they
    provide, the interactions between the application systems and their
    relationships to the core business processes of the organisation
    with the frameworks for services to be exposed as business functions
    for integration; and

4.  Technology Architecture – describing the hardware, software and
    network infrastructure needed to support the deployment of the
    application systems.
{: type="a"}

# Capability Planning within NATO

NATO Defence Planning Process (NDPP) is a continuous five step process,
which NATO uses to utilize the combined resources of the alliance and of
all the members of the alliance in order to accomplish its political
goals commonly know as NATO’s Level of Ambition (LOA).

The NDPP process harmonises and integrates thirteen different planning
domains. Among those domain are:

-   Armaments Planning - focusing on capability procurement processes
    and harmonization of the various R&T initiatives

-   Command, Control & Consultation (C3) Planning - which evaluates the
    tasks essential to NATO’s missions and determines those that require
    C3-related capabilities for their execution (NDPP STEP 2). These
    capabilities are identified, taking into account lessons identified
    and any enduring implications of urgent procurements in support
    of operations. Current C3 concepts and doctrine (for instance NNEC)
    shape C3 capability requirements, and certain aspects are captured
    using architecture frameworks (specifically the NATO
    Architecture Framework) and represented in the NATO
    Overarching Architecture. This helps to ensure that solutions
    developed in one area are compatible and interoperable with those
    developed in others. Typically targets are set (NDPP Step 3) as a
    result of identification of capability requirements both to
    individual nations (especially regarding standards
    and interoperability) and to NATO itself for the procurement of
    capabilities not suited to national provision.

-   Standardisation - This domain ensures that the identified
    capabilities will comply with standards to achieve interoperability.
    The Standardisation domain will participate mainly in NDPP Step 2and
    NDPP Step 3.

For all planning domains the NDPP process focus on providing the
necessary capabilities necessary for NATO to accomplish it political
goals. The necessary set of capabilities for medium and long terms use
is called the Minimum Capabilities Requirements (MCR).

The process consists of the following five steps:

1.  Establish Political Guidance.

2.  Determine requirements.

3.  Apportion requirements.

4.  Facilitate implementation.

5.  Review Result.

{%include rasterfigure.html url="ndpp_5_steps.png" width="604" height="414" description="NDPP 5 steps"%}



In step 2, NDPP compares existing capabilities with the MCR and thereby
identify what is called Priority Shortfall Areas (PSA).. In step 3 the
MCR and PSA are used to identify targets (capabilities), which much
implemented by NATO- and/or nations.

# Capability Package Management within NATO


NATO implements these targets though the capability packages management
process, thereby ensuring that NATO will be able to deliver the minimum
capability requirements necessary to fulfil its political goals.

The capability management process is strictly aligned with the NDDP
process and describes at a very high level how and by whom capabilities
are identified, developed and implemented. Here a capability will
consist of one or more functional components: Doctrine, Organization,
Training, Materiel, Leadership development, Personnel, Facilities and
Interoperability (DOTMLPFI).

The capabilities development process steps are:

-   Analysis of Strategic Environment.

-   Identify Capability Needs.

-   Derive Requirements.

-   Conduct Gap Analysis and Fulfilment.

-   Identify Possible Solutions.

-   Conduct Implementation.

<!--
Source: https://tide.act.nato.int/tidepedia/index.php/Capability\_Management
-->

There are many similarities between this process and the architecting
for the enterprise methodology defined by NAF. However, the description
of the Capability Management process is currently at such a high level,
that it will require further analysis, before the benefits of using a
NAF based approach can be described in detail.

# Reference Architectures within NATO

When developing capabilities, NC3B mandates that all capability packages
developed for the C3 planning domain must create a reference
architecture before initiating the development of the capability
package. This reference architecture facilitates the requirement
definition and should focus on services, processes and component
functionality.

According to ACT: “The Reference Architecture will be used to:

-   Provide the tools that support Capabilities Development process
    including support for requirements capture, definition
    and implementation.

-   Provide communication means between operational analysts, architects
    and operational users.

-   Fulfil the ACT role of RA provider as mandated by NATO C3 System
    Interoperability Directive (NID) and NATO Networked C3
    Interoperability Policy (NIP).”

<!--
Source: https://tide.act.nato.int/tidepedia/index.php/Reference\_Architecture\_(RA)
-->

The process employed by ACT follows the following steps:

-   Identify User Requirements (SCs).

-   Analyse Business processes (SCs, NCIA).

-   Capture requirements (SCs, NCIA).

-   Identify services (ACT, NCIA).

-   Create architecture models (ACT, NCIA).

Most process steps involves multiple types of actors from multiple
organisations, which is seem the reason, why NAF 3 have been used a
common language. However, ACT does not describe the process in detail,
only the products in the form of NAF v3 views. They are:

-   NAV-1 Overview and Summary Information

-   NAV-3a Architecture Compliance Statement

-   NOV-5 Operational Activity Model

-   NSOV-1 Service Taxonomy

-   NSOV-2 Service Definition

-   NSV-1 System Interface Description

-   NSV-4 System Functionality Description

-   NSV-5 Systems Function to Operational Activity Traceability Matrix

-   NSV-7 System Quality Requirements Description

-   NSV-10a Systems Rule Model

-   NSV-11a Logical Data Model

-   NSV-12 Service Provision

-   NTV-1 Technical Standards profile

# Recommendations for NATO

As long as reference architecture is considered, it shall guide and
constrain building multiple architectures. It seem strange that that the
set above lacks viewpoints that describe the purpose of the architecture
in the form of context, scope, stakeholders and what should be
described. A capability taxonomy would also be very useful.

Although an architectural approach is used for reference architecture
which is a requirement for capability development in the C3 domain, it
is not a natural part of a the capability development process and
therefore not part of the NDPP process, where a different language is
used.

Use of architecture assists in handling information from multiple
sources and detect and eliminate redundant information and evaluate
requirements. Architecture help trace requirement to the solution and
back, thereby ensuring that a solution is based on a specific
requirement.

The iterative approach introduced with the NAF v4 methodology enables us
to continuously revisit the stages in the process and re-orient the
architecture when necessary.
