---
title: Architecting Styles
---

Figure bellow depicts the relationships between them. Definitions are
below, further details can be found in Chapter 2.

![](./media/image22.png){width="477" height="361"}

Figure -1: Styles of Architecting

# Authoritative

This style provides direction/policy to one or more domains to drive
coherency, consistency, reuse and alignment with corporate objectives.
The resultant architecture is an enduring reference source for other
architecture activities and supports all phases of the enterprise life
cycle. It requires constant management and strong governance to ensure
it remains relevant and valid. A specialist team commonly enables this
style with a wide remit for coherence or interoperability across the
enterprise.

# Directive

This style plays a key role in the development, design and
implementation of new capability, processes or systems within existing
engineering practices and governance. It is applicable to all domains
but is normally focused on a single domain or sub-domain that is
planning for, or going through change. Depending on the domain this
style will use relevant reference models, policies or standards along
with a range of dedicated/specialist tooling.

# Coordinative

This style supports the co-ordination of change activities within a
single domain or sub-domains by aggregation across lower levels; it is
normally used at the Programme or Enterprise level. Governance is needed
to ensure that the supplied Management Information (MI) is of suitable
quality to support required decisions. The approach draws heavily on
broader P3M practices and may be part of a Programme Support Office
(PSO). Tooling is specialised with aggregated data being presented
through dashboards or composite graphics to meet different decision
makersâ€™ needs.

# Supportive

This is a focused style that supports key interventions or decision
points across all levels of change and it can also be used as an initial
activity to identify the need for change. It can function with limited
governance (e.g. peer review) but must be held to account when
supporting key decisions. This style is normally undertaken by a small
team (or individual) of dedicated architects working as part of a wider
multi discipline team; using best available tooling including standard
office products.
