---
title: A1 – Meta-Data Definitions
legacy: "NAF v3: NAV-3; MODAF: AV-1,2"
viewpoint: architecture
---

The A1 Meta-Data Definitions View specifies the categories of meta-data tag used
throughout the architecture.


## Concerns Addressed

* Architecture element discovery.
* Rights management.
* Protective marking at fine-grain.

## Background

Architectures, particularly large ones, usually require meta-data tags to aid with
searching and discovery. The NAF specifies some built-in meta-data tags, such as:

* Definition
* Assumption
* Finding
* Recommendation
* Purpose
* Approver, Approval Milestone, Modeller, Manager,

## Usage

* Setting up standard tag types for the architecture.
* Assigning tags to architectural elements.


## Representation

* Tables
* Text

## Detailed View Description

An A1 View lists all the meta-data tags used throughout the architecture. It can also
be used to list the architectural elements that are tagged, although this can be
unwieldy in larger architectures.

The tags themselves are usually assigned as the architecture is produced. A1 simply
defines the allowable tags that architects can use:

Figure 3-73: Example A1 View

The tags defined in the A1 View can then be shown (optionally) in any other view.
The example below is from a P4 View:

Figure 3-74: Example P4 View Using Tags Defined in the A1 View


## Key Elements and Their Relationships


## Meta-Model

The detailed meta-model and element list for A1, Meta-Data Definitions, is at
paragraph 4.7.1.
