---
title: A2 - Architecture Products
legacy: "NAF v3: NAV-3; MODAF: AV-1,2"
viewpoint: architecture
---

The A2 Architecture Products View lists the products that describe an Architecture,
and the views to which those products correspond.

## Concerns Addressed

* Architecture Content.
* Specification and Mapping of Stakeholder Concerns.

## Background

The A2 View specifies the structure of an architecture, and the products that describe
the architecture. Each product may correspond to an architecture view. This view
also traces the architectures onto the Enterprise Phases they correspond to (see also
C2 – Enterprise Vision) and identifies the key stakeholders, their concerns and the
products that address those concerns (from ISO42010).

## Usage

* Summarising an Architecture.
* Navigating an Architecture.

## Representation

An A2 view is usually presented using the NAF grid, as outlined at Section 3.1.
However, should the architect be using a locally defined set of views or a
methodology that dictates a specific order of views, then this may also be used if it
assists with navigating the architecture.

## Detailed View Description

An A2 view lists the views that make up the architecture description and which views
those views conform to.

Figure 3-77: Example A2 View

A2 attempts to follow ISO42010 as closely as possible, which is based on IEEE1471.
Some additions have also been made to the standard to fully support the NAF. For
version 4.0 of NAF, the terminology has been aligned with ISO42010 whereas
previous version of the NAF were aligned with the more commonly used terminology
of DoDAF, MODAF, TOGAF, Zachman etc. The definitions in ISO42010 are fairly
loose so it is important to understand the interpretations used in NAF v4.0:

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ISO42010 Term</th>
<th>ISO42010 Definition</th>
<th>NAF v4.0 Interpretation</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><strong>Architecture</strong></td>
<td>Fundamental concepts or properties of a system in its environment embodied in its elements, relationships, and in the principles of its design and evolution.</td>
<td>In practice, this is rather difficult to distinguish from either the System of interest, or the Architecture Description in  ISO42010. NAF interprets this to be the aspects of the System (Enterprise in the case of NAF) that we are interested in.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Architecture Description</strong></td>
<td>Work product used to express an architecture.</td>
<td>Interpreted to be the complete architecture being produced for the enterprise.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Architecture Framework</strong></td>
<td>Conventions, principles
and practices for the
description of
architectures established
within a specific domain of
application and/or
community of
stakeholders.<br /><br />
EXAMPLE1 Generalised
Enterprise Reference
Architecture and
Methodologies (GERAM)
[ISO 15704] is an
architecture framework.<br /><br />
EXAMPLE2 Reference
Model of Open Distributed
Processing (RM-ODP)
[ISO/IEC 10746] is an
architecture framework.</td>

<td>This is the NAF standard,
including views, meta-
model and methodology.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Architecture Model</strong></td>
<td>Model from which architecture views are composed.</td>
<td>NAF assumes this to mean that architecture views may consist of one or more architecture.</td>
</tr>
<tr>

<tr>
<td><strong>Architecture View</strong></td>
<td>Model from which
architecture views are
composed. NAF assumes
this to mean that
architecture views may
consist of one or more
architecture models.</td>

<td>This is assumed to be an
instance of a view and
may consist of one or
more Architecture Models.<br /><br />
Note: In NAF 3.x, MODAF,
DoDAF, etc. this was
called “Product”.</td>
</td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td><strong>Architecture View</strong></td>

<td>Work product establishing
the conventions for the
construction, interpretation
and use of architecture
views to frame specific
system concerns.</td>

<td>In NAF v4 this equates to
each cell in the grid, as
defined in each sub-
section of chapter 3.<br /><br />

Note: In NAF 3.x, MODAF,
DoDAF, etc. this was
called “view”.</td>
</tr>
<tr>

<tr>
<td><strong>Model Kind</strong></td>

<td>Conventions for one type
of modelling.</td>

<td>Assumed to be a category
of model / view. These
seem to equate to the
columns in the NAF 4.0
grid, and at a finer-grain
level to each
“Representation” sub-
section in Chapter 3.</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td><strong>Model Kind</strong></td>
<td>Conventions for one type
of modelling.</td>
<td>Assumed to be a category
of model / view. These
seem to equate to the
columns in the NAF 4.0
grid, and at a finer-grain
level to each
“Representation” sub-
section in Chapter 3.</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td><strong>System-of-interest</strong></td>
<td>System whose
architecture is under
consideration and is the
subject of an architecture
description.</td>
<td>
NAF is an enterprise
architecture framework,
whereas ISO42010 has its
origins in software
systems architecture. NAF
therefore interprets the
term “system” in its widest
sense to include people,
organisations and
technical systems.
Architecture View
Note: In NAF 3.x, MODAF,
DoDAF, etc. this was
called “Product”.
Note: In NAF 3.x, MODAF,
DoDAF, etc. this was
called “view”.<br /><br />
For the purposes of NAF,
Enterprise and
EnterprisePhase are used
instead if system-of-interest. The used of
EnterprisePhase allows for
architectures to cover
different stages of an
Enterprise’s evolution.</td>
</tr>


</tbody>
</table>



## Key Elements and Their Relationships


## Meta-Model

The detailed meta-model and element list for A2, Architecture Products, is at
paragraph 4.7.2.
