---
title: A3 – Architecture Correspondence
legacy: ISO/IEC/IEEE 42010
---

The A3 Architecture Correspondence View identifies the high-level dependencies
between architectures.

## Concerns Addressed

* Traceability / dependencies between architectures.
* Re-Use of Architectures.

## Background

ISO/IEC/IEEE42010 introduces the idea of architecture correspondence and
correspondence rules. Quoting from ISO/IEC/IEEE 42010; “A correspondence
defines a relation between AD elements. Correspondences are used to express
architecture relations of interest within an architecture description (or between
architecture descriptions). Correspondences can be governed by correspondence
rules. Correspondence rules are used to enforce relations within an architecture
description (or between architecture descriptions).”

NOTE: Although the concept of correspondence in ISO42010 is quite broad, the A3
View is only concerned with dependency view between architectures. The NAF has a
number of relationships, used throughout the framework. Rather than identify each
relationship in A3, those relationships are shown in “Key Elements and Their
Relationships” and “Meta-Model” for each view.

## Usage

* Dependency analysis across architectures.

## Representation

* Tabular.

Graphical elements linked by tracing lines.

## Detailed View Description

An A3 View is generally just a list of dependencies between architectures. Those
dependencies will generally occur because one architecture is re-using or referring
parts of another.

Figure 3-75: Example A3 View

## Key Elements and Their Relationships


## Meta-Model

The detailed meta-model and element list for A3, Architecture Correspondence, is at
paragraph 4.7.3.
