---
title: A8 – Standards
legacy: "NAF v3: NTV-1,2; MODAF: TV-1,2"
---

The A8 Standards View specifies the standards, rules, policy and guidance that are
applicable to aspects of the architecture. These standards may be traced to
elements elsewhere in the architecture to indicate that those elements conform to the
applicable NATO and/or international standards.

## Concerns Addressed

* Project Strategy.
* Project Governance.

## Background

The A8 View encompasses both technical and non-technical standards. The
standards specified in the A8 view can be applied across the architecture to a variety
of structural and behavioural elements. Standards are essential to the coherent
running of businesses and to the delivery of reliable, interoperable systems.

## Usage

* Application of standards (informing project strategy).
* Standards compliance.
* Forecasting future changes in standards (informing project strategy).
* Specifying standards that will have an impact on the architecture and the
  capability it is to deliver.

## Representation

* Tables.

## Detailed View Description

The A8 View lists all the currently ratified standards that have been used throughout
the architecture, and so acts as a checklist to help the architect ensure conformance.
The A8 View is typically a table showing the standards used throughout the
architecture. Apart from the standard itself, the table may optionally show:

* The version identifier of the standard (in accordance with AAP-03(J) for NATO
  standards).
* The ratification body responsible for the standard (e.g. NATO, ISO, other
  external military or civilian authority).
* The ratification date of the standard.
* The URI of the website where the standard can be found (NSA websitel
  [http://www.nato.int/cps/en/natolive/71191.htm](http://www.nato.int/cps/en/natolive/71191.html) for all NATO standards).
* The publisher of the standard, if different to the ratification body (non-NATO
  standards only, as applicable).
* The elements in the architecture which conform to the standard.
*  Any other supporting information.

The standards need not be technical, and may be related to business or military
doctrine, best practice, or even legislation.

Figure 3-803: Example A8 Standards Profile

The time from initial concept to fielded capability may be very long. It is, therefore,
necessary to be able to refer to standards which, although not ratified at the time of
producing the architecture, will have an impact on the capability. This could be
anything from expected changes in legislation around spectrum management to
future environment and safety standards. Being able to refer to emerging standards
also enables the architect to mitigate the risk of outmoded specifications - so called
“designed obsolescence”. The A8 View may therefore also specify standards that
are not currently ratified but are expected to have an impact on the fielded capability.


## Key Elements and Their Relationships


## Meta-Model

The detailed meta-model and element list for A8, Standards, is at paragraph 4.7.8.
