---
title: C1-S1 – Capability to Service Mapping
legacy: "NAF v3: NSOV-3; MODAF: SOV-3"
---

The C1-S1 Capability to Service Mapping View depicts the underlying capabilities of
a given set of Service Specifications.

## Concerns Addressed

* Wrapping capabilities as Service Specifications.
* Defining the capability required from a given Service Specification.

## Background

If network enabled capability is to be delivered by the orchestration of loosely couple
services (i.e. a service-oriented architecture), it is important to know which services
have the potential to support particular capabilities. A C1-S1 View presents a simple
mapping of services to capabilities, showing which services contribute to which
capability.

## Usage

* Service Specification & Planning.
* Governance.

## Representation

* Tabular.
* UML.

## Detailed View Description

A C1-S1 can be presented as a diagram showing tracing relationships from
capabilities to services.

Figure 3-15

A C1-S1 can also be presented as a matrix with capabilities on one axis and services
on the other.

The relationship between capability and service is many-to-many. A given service
may provide one or more capabilities, or a given capability may be provided by more
than one service. Note that if a combination of services are required to deliver a
certain capability, this should be modelled using a combination of L2, Logical
Scenario, (to map the capability to a node) and L4, Logical Activities, (to orchestrate
the services against activities performed by the node).

## Key Elements and Their Relationships


## Meta-Model

The detailed meta-model and element list for C1-S1, Capability to Service Mapping,
is at paragraph 4.3.1.
