---
title: C1 - Capability Taxonomy
legacy: "NAF v3: NCV-2; MODAF: StV-2"
----


The C1 Viewpoint presents capabilities and the hierarchical relationships
between them.

## Concerns Addressed

* Capability Planning.
* Capability Management.

## Background

The C1 View specifies all the capabilities that are referenced throughout one
or more architectures – i.e. one C1 may provide the definitive list of capabilities for a
number of logical and resource architectures.

The capabilities may be organised into specialisation hierarchies
(taxonomies). Measures of Effectiveness (MoE) may be specified for each capability.
Note that MoEs are inherited down a capability taxonomy.

## Usage

* Identification of existing and required capabilities.
* Source for the derivation of cohesive sets of Key User Requirements (KURs).
* Providing reference capabilities for multiple architectures.

## Representation

* Tabulation.
* Hierarchical (Connected Shapes).
* UML Class Diagram (with generalisation relationships and property definitions).

## Detailed View Description

C1 specifies a hierarchy of capabilities. A capability taxonomy persists over
architect may wish to specify historical, current or future capability) and
referenced by multiple architectures. The capabilities specified in a
extensively re-used in logical, service-oriented and resource views; in this
concept of capability is integral to any NAF architecture.

In the NAF, a capability is a description of an ability to do something. In the C1 View,
the capabilities are only described in the abstract – i.e. C1 does not specify how a
capability is to be implemented. A C1 is most commonly structured as a
specialisation hierarchy of capabilities, with the most general at the root and the most
specific at the leaves. Capabilities may have MoEs – these measure categories are
inherited by any sub-capabilities:

FIG 3-3

The capabilities in a C1 view are related by specialisation relationships that assert
one capability is a special case of another (e.g. Recovery Capability, Recovery Land
Capability, Recovery Water Capability, Recovery Costal Capability).

In the NAF, Capabilities are ‘enduring’, that is they are intended to provide an
enduring framework across the lifetime of one or more enterprises. This means that
it is feasible to develop a capability taxonomy that will apply to all Enterprise Phases
listed in a C2, Enterprise Vision, and a C1 may even cover more than one logical /
resource architecture.



## Key Elements and Their Relationships

FIG

## Meta-Model

The detailed meta-model and element list for C1, Capability Taxonomy, is at
paragraph 4.2.1.
