---
title: C2 - Enterprise Vision
legacy: NAF v3: NCV-1; MODAF: StV-1
---


In the NAF, Capabilities are ‘enduring’, that is they are intended to provide an
enduring framework across the lifetime of one or more enterprises. This means that
it is feasible to develop a capability taxonomy that will apply to all Enterprise Phases
listed in a C2, Enterprise Vision, and a C1 may even cover more than one logical /
resource architecture.


## Concerns Addressed

* Enterprise Strategy.
* Capability Planning.

## Background

The purpose of the C2 View is to provide a strategic context for the capabilities
described in the architecture and to specify the scope for the architecture. The C2
View is high-level and describes the vision, goals, enduring tasks and capabilities
using terminology that is easily understood by non-technical readers.


## Usage

* Capture and communication of the strategic vision related to capability evolution.
* Identify the capabilities required to meet the vision and goals.
* Identify the required timescales for the capabilities (as opposed to Cr which
  provides a summary of when projects are estimated to deliver capability).
* Identify any enduring tasks the enterprise performs.

## Representation

* Structured Text.
* UML Composite Structure Diagram.
* SysML Structural Diagrams.

## Detailed View Description

The C2 View defines the strategic context for a group of capabilities described in the
architecture by outlining the vision for an enterprise over a bounded period of time. It
describes the high level goals and strategy for the enterprise, and the level of
capability the enterprise is expected to achieve over time. Of key importance is the
identification of Enterprise Goals, together with the desired outcomes and
measurable benefits associated with these.

FIG 3.4

A C2 view can provide the blueprint for a transformational initiative, by showing the
expected capabilities that phases of an enterprise will exhibit. A C2 view may also
provide textual descriptions of the overarching objectives of the transformation or
change programme that the Enterprise is engaged in.

The C2 view only shows the capabilities exhibited by enterprises, as shown in

FIG

Figure 3-4; it does not show the organisational structure of the enterprise, but does
allow for logical sub-enterprises to be identified. The Vision Statement in a C2 may
be structured in such a way as to express the required capabilities, desired effects
and enterprise goals, as shown in Figure 3-5.

FIG 3.5

The Enterprise Goals and Capabilities are enduring; that is they are intended to
provide an enduring framework across the lifetime of the enterprise that is being
modelled. An Enterprise is divided into phases that are time-bounded; each has a
start and end date. The time periods associated with these phases are sometimes
referred to as ‘epochs’ by planners, although the NAF does not use this specific
terminology.

Figure 3-6

It is sometimes necessary in the NAF to identify one Enterprise Phase as being that
which represents the ‘As Is’ capability of the Enterprise.

Within the C2, certain Enterprise Goals are identified. These goals relate to the
entire enterprise lifetime, they are not specific to an Enterprise Phase. Each goal
may optionally include attributes associated with the measurable outcomes that
relate to it – this is intended to provide a high-level link between enterprise
management and benefits management.

As indicated in Figure 3-6, a C2 may optionally also define a set of sub-enterprises
that the enterprise of interest has. This is important within a collaborative architecting
community as this allows the architecture to be logically sub-divided – e.g. when
multiple teams are developing a federated architecture.


## Key Elements and Their Relationships

Figure

## Meta-Model

The detailed meta-model and element list for C1, Capability Taxonomy, is at paragraph 4.2.1.
