---
title: C3 - Capability Dependencies
legacy: NAF v3: NCV-4; MODAF: StV-4
---


The C3 Capability Dependencies View describes dependencies between
capabilities.  It also defines logical composition of capabilities (i.e.
capability clusters).

## Concerns Addressed

* Capability Management.

## Background

The C3 View is intended to provide a means of analysing the dependencies
between capabilities and between capability clusters.  The composition of
capabilities (into clusters) is logical and the purpose of the clusters is to
guide enterprise management.

## Usage

* Identification of capability dependencies.
* Capability management (impact analysis for options, disposal etc.).

## Representation

* Nested box diagram.
* UML Class diagram.
* UML Composite Structure diagram.
* SysML Structural diagram.

## Detailed View Description

C3 describes the relationships between capabilities. It also defines logical groupings
of capabilities. This contrasts with C1, Capability Taxonomy, which also deals with
relationships between capabilities; but C1 only addresses specialisation relationships
(i.e. capability taxonomy).

C3 is intended to provide a means of analysing the dependencies between
capabilities and between capability clusters. In particular, it will highlight potential
integration requirements and the interactions needed between acquisition projects in
order to achieve the overall capability.

The recommended notation for C3 is a functional dependency diagram which shows
how functions are clustered together and the relationships between the individual
functions or clusters of functions. It may also be useful to supplement the functional
dependency diagram with a function n-squared diagram. The following four examples
show the same C3 view presented in different ways.

Fig 3-7

Fig 3-8

Fig 3.9

Fig 3-10

## Key Elements and Their Relationships

Fig

## Meta-Model

The detailed meta-model and element list for C3, Capability Dependencies, is at
paragraph 4.2.3.
