---
title: C4 - Standard Processes
legacy: "NAF v3: NCV-6; MODAF: StV-6"
---

The C4 Standard Processes View specifies standard (e.g. doctrinal)
operational activities and optionally traces them to the capabilities they
support.

## Concerns Addressed

* Doctrine Production.
* Operational Analysis.

## Background


Some processes are standard across the whole enterprise, or even more than one
enterprise.  The C4 View specifies Standard Operational Activities that can
be re-used across multiple logical architectures (e.g. in L4, Logical
Activities).

## Usage

* Specification of doctrine.
* Tracing capabilities to enduring tasks.
* Tracing capabilities to standard operational activities.
* Capability audit.

## Representation

* Tabular.
* Tracing Diagram.

## Detailed View Description

The C4 specifies the Standard Operational Activities, and the Enduring Tasks and
Capabilities they support. It is created as part of the conceptual architecture (i.e.
before the creation of supporting Logical views), and will consist of a library of pre-
defined activities taken from Doctrine. Consequently, the Operational Activities in L4,
Logical Activities, should, therefore, be specialisations of the Standard Operational
Activities from the C4 View.

A C4 is usually shown in the form of a table, optionally listing the supported
capabilities and enduring tasks, as shown in Figure 3-11

Fig 3-11

## Key Elements and Their Relationships

Figure

## Meta-Model

The detailed meta-model and element list for C4, Standard Processes, is at
paragraph 4.2.4.
