---
title: L3 – Node Interactions
legacy: "NAF v3: NOV-2,3; MODAF: OV-2,3"
viewpoint: logical
---

The L3 Node Interactions View addresses logical flows between nodes.


## Concerns Addressed

* Interoperability Requirements

## Background

L3 is used to provide further detail of the interoperability requirements associated
with the operational capability of interest. The focus is on logical flows that cross the
capability boundary. Although the primary purpose of the L3 View is to specify
information exchanges, the L3 may also list flows of materiel, energy and human
resources.

## Usage

* Definition of interoperability requirements.

## Representation

* Tabulation.

## Detailed View Description

The L3 View identifies the flows that are necessary to enable the nodes to achieve a
mission objective. This view is initially constructed from the information contained in
the L2, Logical Scenario, and L4, Logical Activities, views; however, the L3 View
provides a more detailed definition of the logical flows between nodes.

The L3 view details logical flows by identifying which nodes exchange what
information / resources, with whom, why the flow is necessary, and the key attributes
of the flows – e.g. “timeliness”, “availability”, “protective marking”, “non-repudiation”.
It also maps information elements, defined in the L7, Logical Data Model View, to the
producing and consuming nodes, the needlines between them, and the activities that
they support.

Multiple logical flows may be bundled into one needline and captured in tabular form.

Fig 3-301

The emphasis in this view is on the logical and operational characteristics of the
information or resources being exchanged. It is important to note that L3 is not
intended to be an exhaustive list of all the details contained in every logical flow
between every node associated with the architecture in question. Rather, this view is
intended to capture the most important flows in a logical, solution-independent
manner.

## Key Elements and Their Relationships


## Meta-Model

The detailed meta-model and element list for L3, Node Interactions, is at paragraph
4.4.3.
