---
title: L4-P4 – Activity to Function Mapping
legacy: NAF v3: NSV-5; MODAF: SV-5
---

The L4-P4 Activity to Function Mapping View provides two alternate views:

* It addresses the linkage between functions described in P4, Resource
  Functions, and operational activities specified in L4, Logical Activities.
* It addresses the Resource Functions from the P4 View and the Service
  Functions from the S4 View.

## Concerns Addressed

* Requirements Definition.
* Process Mapping.

## Background

The L4-P4 View depicts the mapping of Resource Functions (and optionally, the
resources that provide them) to operational activities or service functions. For
operational activities it thus identifies the transformation of an operational need into a
purposeful action performed by a system or solution. For service functions it
provides the link between the services used at the operational level and the specific
Resource Functions provided by the resources supporting the services.

Note that the NAF uses the term ‘Operational Activity’ in the Logical Specifications
layer and the term ‘Resource Function’ in the Physical Specifications layer to refer to
essentially the same kind of thing, that is, both activities and functions are tasks that
are performed, accept inputs, and develop outputs. The distinction between an
Operational Activity and a Resource Function is a question of “what” and “how”. An
Operational Activity is a specification of what is to be done, regardless of the
mechanism used whereas a Resource Function specifies how a resource carries it
out. For this reason, the L4-P4 is a significant View as it ties together the L4, Logical
Activities, with the P4, Resource Functions. This logic can also be applied to
Services where the S4, Service Functions, is a specification of what functionality is to
be delivered, specified independently of implementation.

The relationship between Resource Functions and Operational Activities may be
many-to-many (i.e. one activity / service function may be supported by multiple
Resource Functions and one Resource Function may support multiple activities /
service functions).

## Usage

* Tracing functional system requirements to user requirements.
* Tracing solution options to requirements.
* Identification of overlaps.

## Representation

* Tabulation.

## Detailed View Description

A L4-P4 view is normally a matrix showing the relationship between Resource
Functions, and operational activities / service functions.

Figure 3-635: Example P4-L4 View

A L4-P4 view may be further augmented with the Resource Types (e.g. artefacts,
roles, capability configurations etc.) that conduct the Resource Functions. The
architect may also wish to hide the Resource Functions in a L4-P4 view so that the
table simply shows the mapping from Resource Types to operational activities /
service Functions.

Figure 3-646: Example Variant P4-L4 View (Systems Mapped to Operational Activities)

During requirements definition, a L4-P4 view plays a particularly important role in
tracing the architectural elements associated with system requirements to those
associated with user requirements.


## Key Elements and Their Relationships


## Meta-Model

The detailed meta-model and element list for L4-P4, Activity to Function Mapping, is
at paragraph 4.5.5.
