---
title: L4 – Logical Activities
legacy: "NAF v3: NOV-5; MODAF: OV-5"
---

The L4 Logical Activities View specifies solution-independent operational activities
that are normally conducted in the course of achieving a mission or a business goal.
L4 also specifies the logical flows produced and consumed by the activities.

## Concerns Addressed

* Process Modelling.
* Operational Planning.
* Concept of Operations.
* Service Orchestration.

## Background

The L4 View describes the operational activities that are being conducted within the
mission or scenario. These activities are defined at a logical, solution-neutral level so
as to enable different solutions in the Physical layer.

The L4 View describes the activities associated with the logical architecture, as well
as the:

* Relationships or dependencies among the operational or business processes.
* Information exchanged between operational or business processes.
* External interchanges (from/to operational or business processes that are
  outside the scope of the architecture).

An operational activity is a logical process, specified independently of how it is
carried out. To maintain this independence from implementation, logical nodes in the
L2 View are used to represent the structure which carries out the operational
activities. Operational activities are realised as resource functions (P4) which are the
“how” to the Operational Activities’ “what” – i.e. they are specified in terms of the
resources that carry them out.

## Usage

* Requirements capture.
* Description of business processes and workflows.
* Operational planning.
* Logistics support analysis.
* Information flow analysis.
* Support task analysis to determine training needs.

## Representation

* Hierarchy chart.
* IDEF0 Diagram.
* UML activity diagram.
* UML activity diagram (with swim-lanes)

## Detailed View Description

Standard Operational Activities from C4 may be re-used in L4. Standard operational
activities are those defined in doctrine, but which are not tailored to a specific
requirement, i.e. they may be used across multiple logical architectures.

There are two basic ways to depict activity models:

* The activity hierarchy shows activities depicted in a tree structure, as shown in
  Figure 3-312. It helps provide an overall picture of the activities involved and a
  quick reference for navigating the L4 input/output flow model.

  FIg 3-312

* The activity flow diagram shows activities connected by information flow arrows,
  see Figure 3-323. Input/outputs of operational activities relate to information
  elements of L3, Node Interactions, and are further characterised by the
  information exchange attributes.

Figure 3-323

Operational activities may consume or produce information / resources. When these
cross node boundaries, they are carried by logical flows shown in the L2, Logical
Scenario. In this way the L4 can contribute to information exchange requirements
analysis. Annotations to the activities may also identify the costs (actual or
estimated) associated with performing each activity. The business rules that govern
the performance of the activities can be keyed to each activity - the business rules
may be described in L8, Logical Constraints. In addition, a process flow model may
be annotated with the names of the nodes responsible for conducting those activities,
in swimlanes. As with L2, Logical Scenario, and L3, Node Interactions, flows on the
L4 may also carry materiel, human resources or energy.

If the UML method is used, the activity model can include decision points and
branching.

Fig 3-34

If the architect is developing a service-oriented architecture, the L4 may be used to
show which services are required to support the conduct of operational activities. It
helps define what services are needed to support an operation and when they are
needed.

Figure 3-335: Example P4 View with Services (TBD)


## Key Elements and Their Relationships

Figure

## Meta-Model

The detailed meta-model and element list for L4, Logical Activities, is at paragraph
4.4.4.
