---
title: L7 – Logical Data Model
legacy: "NAF v3: NOV-7; MODAF OV-7"
viewpoint: logical
---

The L7 Logical Data Model View addresses the information perspective on an
operational architecture.

## Concerns Addressed

* Information Requirements.
* Message Requirements.
* Logical Data Models.

## Background

The L7 View is used to document the business information. It describes the
information that can be exchanged along the logical flows in the architecture,
specified in L3, Node Interactions.

## Usage

* Information architecture.
* Information product hierarchy.

## Representation

* Entity-Relationship diagram (e.g. IDEF1X).
* UML class diagram.

## Detailed View Description

A L7 describes the logical data model for the architecture. It provides a definition of
information types (entities), their attributes or characteristics, and their inter-
relationships. The entities in the model define the structure of information elements
that are exchanged between nodes.

Figure 3-391: Generic Example L7 View

The L7 View defines each kind of information class associated with the architecture
domain, mission, or business as its own entity, with its associated attributes and
relationships. These entity definitions specify the structure of L3, Node Interactions,
information.

Note that NAF refers to ‘information’ in the Logical Specifications layer and ‘data’ in
the Physical Specifications layer. The intention of this is that the L7 View describes
information of importance to the business (e.g. information products that might be
referred to in doctrine, Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) etc.) whereas P7,
Physical Data Model, describes how that information is implemented as data
structures.

Usually, an entity-relationship notation will be used for L7, but it is also possible to
use UML; an example UML usage is shown in Figure 3-402:

Figure 3-402: Example L7 View


## Key Elements and Their Relationships


## Meta-Model

The detailed meta-model and element list for L7, Logical Data Model, is at paragraph
4.4.7.
