---
title: L8 – Logical Constraints
legacy: NAF v3: NOV-6a; MODAF: OV-6a
---

A L8 Logical Constraints View specifies operational or business rules, which may be
behavioural, or may simply be non-functional constraints, on the way that business is
done in the Enterprise.

## Concerns Addressed

User Requirements Specification (Non-Functional).
• Operational Constraints.

## Background

The L8 View is used to constrain the logical architecture without forcing a particular
solution. L8 is used for rules which are not expressed as behavioural models,
interactions or measures of effectiveness, i.e. they are textual statements of
requirement that constrain the architecture.

## Usage

* Definition of business rules.
* Identification of operational constraints.

## Representation

* Structured Text.
* UML diagram with associated UML constrain

## Detailed View Description

At the mission level, the L8 View may be based on business rules, such as those
contained in doctrine, guidance, rules of engagement, etc. At lower levels, L8
describes the rules or constraints under which the architecture or its nodes behave
under specified conditions. Such rules can be expressed in a textual form, for
example:

> “If (these conditions) exist, and (this event) occurs, then (perform these actions).”

These rules are contrasted with the business or doctrinal standards themselves,
which provide authoritative references and provenance for the rules (see A8,
Standards).

The rules captured in a L8 View are logical, specified independently of any given
solution, whereas constraints that are specific to resources are defined in P8,
Resource Constraints. L8 rules can include such guidance as the conditions under
which operational control passes from one entity to another or the conditions under
which a human role is authorised to proceed with a specific activity.

Figure 3-413: Example L8 View

Operational constraints may act upon nodes, operational activities, Logical Data
Models, Entities and Security Domains. Consequently, L8 constraints may be
associated with L4, Logical Activities, and it is often useful to overlay the rules on a
L4 view.

## Key Elements and Their Relationships



## Meta-Model

The detailed meta-model and element list for L8, Logical Constraints, is at paragraph
4.4.8.
