---
title: P1 – Resource Types
legacy: NAF v3: NAV-2/NSV-2a,7,9,12; MODAF: AV-2/SV-2a,7,9,12
---

The P1, Resource Types, View specifies the types of Resources and identifies the
technologies and competences required for the architecture over time. It can also be
used to specify the properties of Resources and the ports exposed by technical
resources. The Resources can be organised into a specialisation hierarchy. P1
provides a library of Resource Types traced back to the Capabilities and/or services
they implement. These may be configurations of resources or configurations which
utilise other services. In both cases, these views specify how services are
implemented. They do not specify the services themselves (this is covered by the
Service Specifications layer), nor do they describe deployed services (covered by the
Deployed Resources layer).


## Concerns Addressed

* Capability Delivery.
* Service Implementation.
* Interface Specification.

## Background

The P1 View collects together all the Resource Types in the architecture together
with a depiction of their performance characteristics. P1 also provides a summary of
the technologies and competencies that impact on the Resources that constitute the
architecture, including descriptions of relevant:

* Emerging and current technologies.
* Industry trends.
* Predictions (with associated confidence factors) of the availability and
  readiness of specific hardware and software products.
* Current and possible future skills.

Technologies and competences can be set against a timeline indicating when they
are forecast to be in use. P1 includes an assessment of the potential impact of these
items on the enterprise. Given the future-oriented nature of this view, forecasts are
typically made in short, mid and long-term timeframes, such as six, twelve and
eighteen month intervals.

## Usage

* Identifying Resource Taxonomies.
* Interface specification.
* Identification of applicable protocols.
* Service implementation.
* Tracing business processes to the resources that support them.
* Forecasting technology readiness against time.
* HR trends analysis.
* Recruitment planning.
* Planning technology insertion.
* Input to options analysis.
* Definition of performance characteristics.
* Identification of non-functional requirements.

## Representation

* Tabulation.
* Mapping (matrix).
* Topological – connected shapes.
* UML Composite Structure Diagram.
* SysML Blocks Diagram
* Timeline view.
* ‘Herringbone’ diagram.


## Detailed View Description


One of the primary purposes of the P1 View is to communicate which characteristics
are considered most crucial for the successful achievement of the mission goals
assigned to the resource. These performance parameters can often be the deciding
factor in acquisition and deployment decisions and can be specified in terms of both
qualitative and quantitative characteristics of resources.

Figure 3-435: Example P1 View

The P1 View describes the interface protocols and hardware specifications of each
port on a system. P1 uses the common term ‘protocol’ as a specialisation of the NAF
term ‘standard’ to describe the standards specifically used in interface and
communication specifications. Any protocol referred to in a P1 diagram must be
listed and defined in the A8, Standards View.

A P1 view comprises of one diagram for each system in the architecture, as shown in
Figure 3-446 and Figure 3-457:

Figure 3-446: Example P1 View in UML Using Simplified Stack Notation

Figure 3-457: Example P1 Port Specification

The P1 also maps a resource (which may itself be constructed from other resources)
to the services it can provide. P1 views are usually presented as a structural model
(e.g. a UML composite structure), with tracing relationships to services. It is also
possible to present a P1 as a table, with services on one axis and resources on the
other. Care should be taken with this approach, however, as it tends to hide any
underlying structure the resources might have.

A given implementation may provide a different level of service depending on the
environment in which is it used. The service attributes defined in S1, Service
Taxonomy, can be given values and related to the environment under which those
values are true.

Figure 3-468: UML Representation of Service Provision

The P1 View also specifies how a service implementation uses other services to
provide its own service(s). This is effectively a composition of services. In specifying
the services the implementation requires, P1 also specifies the level of service
required. Similarly, the level of service provided by the implementation will also be
specified.

Figure 3-479: UML Representation of Service Implementation

The detailed meta-model and element list for P1, Resource Types, is at paragraph
4.5.1.




## Meta-Model
