---
title: P2 – Resource structure
legacy: NAF v3: NSV-1/NOV-4; MODAF: SV-1/OV-4
---

The P2 Resource Structure View addresses the composition and (high-level)
interaction of resources.

## Concerns Addressed

* Physical Architecture.
* Systems Engineering / Design.
* Organisational Design.
* Systems Integration.
* System Requirements Specification.

## Background

The P2 View links together the operational and physical architecture views by
depicting how types of Resource are structured and interact to realise the logical
architecture specified in L2, Logical Scenario. A P2 View may represent the
realisation of a requirement specified in a L2 (i.e. in a “to-be” architecture) and so
there may be many alternative Resource view suites that could realise the
operational requirement. Alternatively, in an “as-is” architecture, a L2 may just be a
simplified, logical representation of the P2 to allow communication of key information
flows to non-technical stakeholders.

A P2 View can be used to specify typical (or template) organisational structures, and
also identify how human resources interact with each other and with systems.

A P2 interaction perspective shows a single-line representation of interfaces between
nodes whereas P3, Resource Connectivity, shows a more detailed representation of
the communications infrastructure that provides the connections.

## Usage

* Definition of system concepts.
* Definition of system options.
* Human – System interactions.
* Typical Organisation structures.
* Interface requirements capture.
* Capability integration planning.
* System integration management.
* Operational planning (capability configuration definition).

## Representation

* Topological (connected shapes).
* UML composite structure diagram (typical).
* UML instances (actual).
* SysML blocks diagram.

## Detailed View Description

One of the primary purposes of a P2 View is to show resource structure; i.e. to
identify the primary sub-systems, posts and roles and their interactions. P2
contributes to user understanding of the structural characteristics of the capability.
Resources may be decomposed in a P2 to any level (i.e. depth) of decomposition
that the architect sees fit. A P2 may also identify the artefact upon which resources
are deployed (i.e. platforms) and can show the nodes that the resources realise.

The real benefit of a P2 is its ability to show the human aspects of an individual
architecture, and how these interact with systems. In addition, NAF has the concept
of a ‘capability configuration’ which is used to gather together systems, assets and
people into a configuration which can meet a specific capability.

If possible, a P2 view will show Resource Types and their interactions for the entire
architecture on the same diagram. If a single P2 view is not possible, the structure
should be decomposed into multiple P2 views.

Figure 3-480: Example P2 View with Elements Traced Back to Logical Nodes

Figure 3-491: Example P2 View Showing Capability Configuration

Figure 3-502: Example P2 View (UML Composite Structure Model)

A typical P2 view may show types of organisations and the typical structure of those
organisations:

Figure 3-513: Example P2 View of Organisations

A P2 may be a hybrid diagram showing typical and actual organisational structures:

Figure 3-524: Example P2 View of Typical and Actual Organisational Structures

Figure 3-535: Example P2 Tabular View

Interactions between resources need not be restricted to communication of data. A
P2 may also show interactions where materiel, human resources or energy flow from
one resource to another.


## Key Elements and Their Relationships

FIGURE

Resources are assembled as Configured Resource Types – there is only one
Configured Resource Type for each usage of a Resource Type in the structure. This
enables components, sub-systems, etc. of the same type, but used in different
positions, to be individually identified. This is particularly useful for interactions – e.g.
being able to identify the connection between the left-hand pump as distinct to the
connection to the right-hand pump of the same type.

## Meta-Model

The detailed meta-model and element list for P2, Resource Structure, is at paragraph
4.5.2.
