---
title: P4 – Resource Functions
legacy: "NAF v3: NSV-4; MODAF: SV-4"
viewpoint: physical
---

The P4 Resource Functions View specifies the Resource Functions carried out by all
types of Resource (human and non-human), including organisational resources.


## Concerns Addressed

* Capability-Based Acquisition.
* Business Process Modelling.
* Workflow Modelling.
* Human-Machine Interaction Specifications.

## Background

The primary purposes of the P4 View are to:

* Develop a clear description of the necessary data flows that are consumed as
  inputs or produced as outputs by each resource.
* Ensure that the functional connectivity is complete (i.e. that a resource’s
  required inputs are all satisfied).
* Ensure that the functional decomposition reaches an appropriate level of
  detail.
* Provide implementation-specific realisations of the operational activities
  specified in the L4, Logical Activities View.

The Functionality Description provides detailed information regarding the allocation of
functions to resources, and the flow of data between Resource Functions. The P4
View is the Physical Resource counterpart to the L4, Logical Activities View.

## Usage

* Description of task workflow.
* Identification of functional system requirements.
* Functional decomposition of systems.
* Relate human and system functions.

## Representation

* Topological (connected shapes).
* UML activity diagram.
* UML activity diagram (with swimlanes to represent resources).
* Functional Breakdown (decomposition).
* SysML activity diagram.

## Detailed View Description

The P4 View is used to specify the functionality of resources in the architecture. The
P4 View is the functional counterpart to the structures specified in the P2, Resource
Structure View. The scope of this view may be capability wide, without regard to
which resources perform which functions, or it may be resource-specific (usually with
the resources depicted as swimlanes). There are two basic ways to depict a P4
view:

* The functional hierarchy shows a decomposition of Resource Functions
  depicted in a tree structure and is typically used where tasks are concurrent
  but dependent, for example, on a production line.

Figure 3-580: Example P4 Hierarchy Schematic

Figure 3-591: Example P4 Hierarchy Schematic with System Context

The functional hierarchy approach may be particularly useful in capability-based
acquisition where it is necessary to model the Resource Functions that are
associated with particular capability configurations depicted in the P2.

* The functional flow diagram that shows Resource Functions connected by
  data and control flow arrows.

Figure 3-602: Example P4 Flow Diagram

Within a physical architecture, P4 flow diagrams document Resource Functions and
the flows of data between those functions. Any type of resource may be used in a
P4, and it is often used to depict the functional interactions between people and
systems.

Figure 3-613: Example P4 Flow Schematic

The Resource Functions may realise L4, Logical Activities, and these activities may
optionally be shown in a P4 view, traced to the functions that realise them. The full
mapping is documented in the L4-P4, Activity to Function Mapping View.

A P4 functional flow view may be used with ‘swimlanes’ presented either vertically or
horizontally. A Resource Function is placed in the swimlane associated with the
resource that performs it. This provides a graphical means of presenting the
interactions between systems or capability configurations (shown through resource
interactions from the P2, Resource Structure View) in functional terms.

Figure 3-624: Example P4 Function Description with Swimlanes

In addition to information flows between functions, a P4 view may show flows of
materiel, energy or human resources.


## Key Elements and Their Relationships


## Meta-Model

The detailed meta-model and element list for P4, Resource Functions, is at
paragraph 4.5.4.
