---
title: General
permalink: /:path/index.html
---

# Purpose

Architecting is a practice for conducting enterprise analysis, design,
planning, and implementation, using a holistic engineering approach at
all times, for the implementation of strategy.

Architecting applies principles and practices to guide organisations
through the business/mission, information, application and technology
changes necessary to implement their strategies.[^1]

Good architecture practices include the usage of architectural artefacts
to describe, assess, evaluate and document relevant aspects of an
architecture.

The NATO Architecture Framework (NAF) provides a standardised way to
develop architecture artefacts, by defining:



The aim of the NATO Architecture Framework Version 4 (NAF v4) is to
provide a standard for developing and describing architectures for both
military and business use.

# Objectives

The objectives of the framework are:


1.  To provide a way to organise and present architectures
    to stakeholders.

2.  To specify the guidance, rules, and product descriptions for
    developing and presenting architecture information.

3.  To ensure a common approach for understanding, comparing, and
    integrating architectures.

4.  To act as a key enabler for acquiring and fielding cost-effective
    and interoperable capabilities.

5.  Alignment with international standards (International Standards
    Organisation (ISO), Institute of Electrical and Electronic
    Engineers (IEEE), The Open Group, Object Management Group
    (OMG), etc).
{: type="a"}

# Scope of NAF Documentation

This document provides an overview of the architecture concepts, the
structure and the framework, and indicates where to find more specific
information. It also describes, in general terms, the typical content
and format of NAF Viewpoints, and the relationship with the NAF
Meta-Model (known as MODAF Ontological Data Exchange Mechanism (MODEM)).

# Reason for Change

Version 4 of the NAF replaces Version 3.[^2] Both NAF Versions 3.0 and
3.1, and MODAF Version 1.2.004 were capable of supporting alliance
interoperability through coherent use of architectures, and provided for
the re-use of architecture artefacts and products that make it easier to
describe systems and applications.

However neither was applied consistently and had not been developed as a
standard. In addition they did not provide a common approach – by
adopting a core methodology based on utilizing best practice (e.g. The
Open Group Architecture Framework (TOGAF®)).

They were also becoming more challenging to maintain because of limited
technical resources.

To provide alignment with major terms and concepts with the following
international standards:

-   ISO/IEC/IEEE 42010 Systems and Software Engineering –
    Architecture Description.

-   ISO/IEC CD 42020 Systems and Software Engineering –
    Architecture Processes.

-   ISO/IEC 42030 Systems and Software Engineering –
    Architecture Evaluation.

-   The Open Group Architecture Framework (TOGAF) Version 9.1.

-   ISO/IEC/IEEE 15288:2015 Systems and Software Engineering – System
    Lifecycle Processes.

-   ISO 15704:2000 Industrial automation systems – Requirements for
    enterprise-reference architectures and methodologies.

Developing NAF v4 enabled the limitations above to be addressed and is a
step towards a Unified Architecture Framework (UAF) as illustrated in
figure below.

{%include rasterfigure.html url="uaf.png" description="NATO Roadmap towards Unified Architecture Framework" %}

[^1]: A Common Perspective on Enterprise Architecture, The Federation of Enterprise Architecture Professional Organizations

[^2]: NAF Version 3 issued as Annex 1 to AC/322-D(2007)0048 and subsequently updated with Annex 1 to AC/322(SC/1-WG/1)N(2009)0005-ADD2. In addition it replaces MODAF Version 1.2.004.
